---
title: Coding Challenge 3
subtitle: Exploring course data
link: false

summary: |
  In this coding challenge we are getting comfortable with list manipulation by writing procedures for exploring data about courses at Grinnell. 
---

### Instructions

In this coding challenge we are providing you with starter code, [CC3-template.scm](../code/ccs/CC3-template.scm). You should download this file and upload the given code to a new `.scm` file named `exploring-course-data.scm`. 

At the top of your file, make sure to include your name, and any acknowledgements according to our [collaboration policy](../syllabus#collaboration-and-resources). In that vein, now is a great time to review those collaboration policies!

Below that header, you'll notice that there is a very large list of courses. You should be able to *toggle* to hide the list while you're coding, as needed. Each course is represented by a string such as ```"80631 CSC-151-02 4.00 00 24 Functional Prob Solving w/lab"```. This string is arranged as follows.

* Five characters that represent some special number used by the Office
  of the Registrar.
* A space.
* Three letters that represent the department.
* A dash.
* Three digits that represent the course number.
* A dash.
* Two digits that represent the section number.
* A space.
* Four characters that represent the number of credits associated with
  the course.
* A space.
* Two digits that represent the number of available spaces.
* A space.
* Two digits that represent the capacity of the class.
* A space.
* An arbitrary number of characters that represent the course title.

This approach to representing data is typically called "fixed-width fields".
a


### Problem 1: Extract Course Info

Our first step is to figure out how to extract all of the portions of
a course.  Write the following procedures.

* `(course-code course)`{:signature}, which extracts the five-digit code
  as a string.
* `(course-department course)`{:signature}, which extracts the three-letter
  department code as a string.
* `(course-number course)`{:signature}, which extracts the three-digit
  course number as a string.
* `(course-section course)`{:signature}, which extracts the two-digit
  course section as a string.
* `(course-credits course)`{:signature}, which extracts the course credits
  as a real number.
* `(course-available course)`{:signature}, which extracts the number
  of available seats as an integer.
* `(course-capacity course)`{:signature}, which extracts the capacity
  of the as an integer.
* `(course-name course)`{:signature}, which extracts the name of the
  course.

```
> (course-code "80495 THD-245-01 4.00 04 12 Lighting for the Stage")
"80495"
> (course-department "80495 THD-245-01 4.00 04 12 Lighting for the Stage")
"THD"
> (course-number "80495 THD-245-01 4.00 04 12 Lighting for the Stage")
"245"
> (course-section "80495 THD-245-01 4.00 04 12 Lighting for the Stage")
"01"
> (course-credits "80495 THD-245-01 4.00 04 12 Lighting for the Stage")
4.0
> (course-available "80495 THD-245-01 4.00 04 12 Lighting for the Stage")
4
> (course-capacity "80495 THD-245-01 4.00 04 12 Lighting for the Stage")
12
> (course-name "80495 THD-245-01 4.00 04 12 Lighting for the Stage")
"Lighting for the Stage"
```

### Problem 2: Derive Course Info

In addition to extracting information, we may also want to compute
values based on the information in a course.  Write the following
procedures:

* `(course-enrollment course)`{:signature}, which gives the number of
  students enrolled in a course.
* `(course-level course)`{:signature}, which gives the "level" of a course
  as a string ("100", "200", "300", or "400").
* `(course-sch course)`{:signature}, which gives the "student credit hours"
  for a course, the product of the number of students and the number of
  credits.

For example,

```
> (course-enrollment "80495 THD-245-01 4.00 04 12 Lighting for the Stage")
8
> (course-level "80495 THD-245-01 4.00 04 12 Lighting for the Stage")
"200"
> (course-sch "80495 THD-245-01 4.00 04 12 Lighting for the Stage")
32.0
> (course-enrollment "81348 ALS-100-04 2.00 -1 08 Brazilian Portuguese I")
9
> (course-level "81348 ALS-100-04 2.00 -1 08 Brazilian Portuguese I")
"100"
> (course-sch "81348 ALS-100-04 2.00 -1 08 Brazilian Portuguese I")
18.0
```


### Problem 3: Sort Courses

We've been working with individual courses.  But we have a list of courses.
And there are, of course, many things we can do with a list.

You can find the first few courses with a command like `(list-take courses 20)`.
As you may have noticed, the courses are organized by course number.  What
if we wanted to organize them in a different way?

Write a procedure, `(sort-courses-by-course courses)`{:signature},
that rearranges the courses so that they are sorted by the course info.
Your procedure must return a list of courses ordered by department.
For courses in the same department, they must be ordered by course number.
When two courses have the same department and course number they should be
ordered by section number.

*Hint:* Recall that you can sort a list of strings with `(sort courses
string<=?)`.  How can you sort using part of the string?  Here's one approach:
Put the course info at the start of each string (using `map`), sort the
new list of changed strings (using `sort`), and then strip out the portion
that you added (using `map` again).

*Hint2:* There are other methods of completing this problem that don't rely on `map`
if you want to think in a different way.

### Problem 4: Course Statistics

Write a procedure, `(average-course-size courses)`{:signature}, that
takes a list of courses as input and finds out the average course capacity size.

Using `average-course-size` and other procedures you have written or write, 
find out the average course size in

a) any department of your choice

b) any course level of your choice

(When you submit this exercise, include the expressions you typed to
compute those average sizes.)


Submission guidelines
---------------------

Submit `exploring-course-data.scm` to Gradescope.


Grading rubric
--------------------
In grading your submission, we will look for the following at each level. Note that if a criteria does not pass a lower level, we will likely not check for criteria at the higher levels. We may also identify other characteristics that move your work between levels.

**You should read through the rubric and verify that your submission meets the rubric.**

### Redo or above

Submissions that lack any of these characteristics will get an I.

```
[] Includes the specified file (correctly named).
[] Includes an appropriate header on the file that indicates the course, author, acknowledgements, etc.
[] Acknowledges appropriately.
[] Code runs in scamper.
```

### Meets expectations or above

Submissions that lack any of these characteristics but have all of the
prior characteristics will get an R.

```
[] Code is well-formatted with appropriate names and indentation.
[] Code submission is organized with comments to indicate the start of new problems.
[] All Gradescope tests pass for Problem 1.
[] All Gradescope tests pass for Problem 2.
[] All Gradescope tests pass for Problem 3.
[] All Gradescope tests pass for Problem 4.
[] In problem 3, at least one helper function is used.
[] In problem 4, computation is shown for a specific department.
[] In problem 4, computation is shown for a specific course level. 
```

### Exemplary / Exceeds expectations

Submissions that lack any of these characteristics but have all of the
prior characteristics will get an M.

```
[] All code is exceptionally organized and easy to read, through the use of comments (to explain the purpose of different pieces of the code) and decomposition
[] In problems 3 and 4, helper procedure names follow Scheme naming conventions and make the purpose of the procedure clear.
```